reference: split data types to separate pages (#1144)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/sql/data-types/string.md

---
title: String types
summary: Learn about the string types supported in TiDB.
category: reference
---

# String Types

TiDB supports all the MySQL string types, including `CHAR`, `VARCHAR`, `BINARY`, `VARBINARY`, `BLOB`, `TEXT`, `ENUM`, and `SET`. For more information, [String Types in MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/string-types.html).

## Supported types

### `CHAR` type

`CHAR` is a fixed length string.  Values stored as `CHAR` are right-padded with spaces to the specified length. M represents the column-length in characters (not bytes).  The range of M is 0 to 255:

```sql
[NATIONAL] CHAR[(M)] [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

### `VARCHAR` type

`VARCHAR` is a string of variable-length. M represents the maximum column length in characters (not bytes). The range of M is 0 to 65,535, but the effective maximum-length will be shorter since the total size of all columns must not exceed 65,535 bytes (the maximum row-size in TIDB).

```sql
[NATIONAL] VARCHAR(M) [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

### `TINYTEXT` type

> `TINYTEXT` is a string of variable-length. The length (M) is optional, with the maximum length being restricted to 255 characters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TINYTEXT` is a string of variable-length. The length (M) is optional, with a maximum length of 255 characters:
```

```sql
TINYTEXT[(M)] [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

### `TEXT` type

> `TEXT` is a string of variable-length. M represents the maximum column length ranging from 0 to 65,535. The range of M is 0 to 65,535, but the effective maximum-length will be shorter since the total size of all columns must not exceed 65,535 bytes (the maximum row-size in TIDB):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TEXT` is a string of variable-length. M represents the maximum column length ranging from 0 to 65,535. The effective maximum-length will be shorter since the total size of all columns must not exceed 65,535 bytes (the maximum row-size in TIDB):
```

```sql
TEXT[(M)] [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

### `MEDIUMTEXT` type

`MEDIUMTEXT` is a string of variable-length. M represents the maximum column length ranging from 0 to 16,777,215, but the effective maximum-length will be shorter since the total size of all columns must not exceed 65,535 bytes (the maximum row-size in TIDB):

```sql
MEDIUMTEXT [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

### `LONGTEXT` type

`LONGTEXT` is a string of variable-length. M represents the maximum column length ranging from 0 to 4,294,967,295, but the effective maximum-length will be shorter since the total size of all columns must not exceed 65,535 bytes (the maximum row-size in TIDB):

```sql
LONGTEXT [CHARACTER SET charset_name] [COLLATE collation_name]
```

### `BINARY` type

The `BINARY` type is similar to the `CHAR` type, but stores binary byte strings rather than nonbinary character strings. M represents the maximum length in bytes:

```sql
BINARY(M)
```

### `VARBINARY` type

> The `VARBINARY` type is similar to the `VARCHAR` type, but stores binary byte strings rather than nonbinary character strings. M represents the maximum length, up to 65,535 bytes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `VARBINARY` type is similar to the `VARCHAR` type, but stores binary byte strings rather than nonbinary character strings. M represents the maximum length, ranging from 0 to 65,535 bytes:
```

```sql
VARBINARY(M)
```

### `TINYBLOB` type

The `TINYBLOB` type is similar to the `TINYTEXT` type, but stores binary byte strings rather than nonbinary character strings:

```sql
TINYBLOB
```

### `BLOB` type

> The `BLOB` type is similar to the `TEXT` type, but stores binary byte strings rather than nonbinary character strings. M represents the maximum column length, up to 65,535 bytes. The effective maximum-length will be shorter since the total size of all columns must not exceed 65,535 bytes (the maximum row-size in TIDB):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `BLOB` type is similar to the `TEXT` type, but stores binary byte strings rather than nonbinary character strings. M represents the maximum column length ranging from 0 to 65,535 bytes. The effective maximum-length will be shorter since the total size of all columns must not exceed 65,535 bytes (the maximum row-size in TIDB):
```
